SOURCE: D:\Desktop\LinkCodex\docs\paper1.pdf
METADATA: {'/CreationDate': 'D:20070911040442', '/Producer': 'Acrobat Distiller 4.05 for Windows', '/ModDate': "D:20070914130737-04'", '/rgid': 'PB:3173297_AS:618238509604865@1524410955581'}
## PAGE 1
See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/3173297
Universal Induction Motor Model With Low-to-High Frequency-Response
Characteristics
Article  in  IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications · October 2007
DOI: 10.1109/TIA.2007.904401 · Source: IEEE Xplore
CITATIONS
194
READS
8,923
5 authors, including:
Behrooz Mirafzal
Kansas State University
154 PUBLICATIONS   4,397 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Gary leonard Skibinski
Rockwell Automation
92 PUBLICATIONS   5,861 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Rangarajan Tallam
Rockwell Automation
62 PUBLICATIONS   2,926 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Dave Schlegel
Rockwell Automation
34 PUBLICATIONS   3,568 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Behrooz Mirafzal on 22 April 2018.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

## PAGE 2
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007 1233
Universal Induction Motor Model With Low-to-High
Frequency-Response Characteristics
Behrooz Mirafzal,Member, IEEE, Gary L. Skibinski, Rangarajan M. Tallam,Senior Member, IEEE,
David W. Schlegel,Member, IEEE, and Richard A. Lukaszewski,Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—A three-phase induction motor model that depicts the
motor behavior over a wide range of frequencies from 10 Hz to
10 MHz is presented in this paper. The model is universal in
the sense that common-mode, differential-mode, and bearing cir-
cuit models are combined into one three-phase equivalent circuit
model. The proposed model is basically an extension of the low-
frequency IEEE Standard 112 circuit model. The proposed model
was experimentally simulated and veriﬁed with results presented.
Index Terms —Bearing current, common mode (CM), differ-
ential mode (DM), electromagnetic interference (EMI), high-
frequency model, induction motor, pulsewidth-modulated (PWM)
voltage source inverter, reﬂected wave, transient overvoltage.
I. I NTRODUCTION
I
NDUSTRIAL applications of adjustable-speed drives
(ASDs) using pulsewidth-modulated (PWM) voltage-source
inverters with steep voltage pulse rise times (tr) have been
common place since 1980. What has evolved are more so-
phisticated three-phase control algorithms, along with power
devices having faster rise times ( < 100 ns) allowing higher
control bandwidth and reducing inverter switching losses and
magnetic ﬁlter volume, and faster switching cycles (4–20 kHz)
to reduce motor current ripple harmonics, torque ripple, and
acoustical noise, which consequently improve system perfor-
mance. However, the fast rise time of the voltage transition also
excites undesirable system secondary parasitic effects, such as
reﬂected wave differential overvoltage spikes on motor termi-
nals that reduce the motor insulation life, common-mode (CM)
current that creates system electromagnetic interference (EMI)
issues, and motor-bearing currents that drastically reduce the
operating life [1].
A single inverter switching event may produce motor tran-
sients up to twice the dc-bus voltage due to mismatch be-
tween the cable characteristic impedance and the motor surge
impedance, which leads to reﬂected waves [1]–[3]. Critical
cable lengths at which the theoretical twice voltage magnitude
Paper IPCSD-07-023, presented at the 2006 Industry Applications Society
Annual Meeting, Tampa, FL, October 8–12, and approved for publication
in the IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS by the Elec-
tric Machines Committee of the IEEE Industry Applications Society. Man-
uscript submitted for review October 31, 2006 and released for publication
April 26, 2007.
The authors are with the Allen–Bradley Drives Division, Rockwell
Automation, Mequon, WI 53092 USA (e-mail: bmirafzal@ra.rockwell.com;
glskibinski@ra.rockwell.com; rmtallam@ra.rockwell.com; dwschlegel@ra.
rockwell.com; ralukaszewski@ra.rockwell.com).
Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TIA.2007.904401
occurs also depends on pulse rise time. ASDs using gate turnoff
thyristor ( tr =2 µs), bipolar junction transistor ( tr =0 .25−
1 µs), and the latest insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT,
tr =0 .05− 0.25 µs) devices have corresponding critical cable
lengths of 300 m ( ∼1000 ft), 150 m ( ∼500 ft), and less than
15 m ( ∼50 ft). A faster IGBT rise time, along with high
peak voltages in most applications, creates a nonlinear voltage
gradient on the ﬁrst turn and ﬁrst coil of the stator winding
[4], [5]. Internal winding voltages may exceed the insulation
capability, which leads to interturn short circuit failure and
subsequently to phase-to-phase or phase-to-ground catastrophic
faults [6], [7].
Accurate simulation of the motor line-to-line overvoltage
requires a distributed parameter transmission line rather than
a lumped parameter model for the cable [8]–[11]. If inverter
output ﬁlters are used, then simple R –L motor models may
be adequate [12]; however, these motor models are unable to
capture the high-frequency content present in the PWM voltage
pulse on unﬁltered outputs. Initially, only single transmission
line cable simulation models were available, which limits
the high-frequency differential-mode (DM) motor models that
matched the induction motor transfer function to also be single
line based [9], [13], [14]. These models matched the motor line-
to-line impedance transfer function with a low-frequency R –L
circuit below the ﬁrst resonance and a parallel R –C branch
for higher frequency content to sufﬁciently predict the motor
overvoltage waveform. Improvements in single-line models
were made with the addition of CM and DM impedances
in parallel with the machine d–q low-frequency model [15],
[16]. One disadvantage of impedance matching schemes on
single-line models is that the resulting elements have no di-
rect correlation to machine geometry or known low-frequency
motor parameters.
Recently, three-phase transmission line models [17] have
become available, so a full three-phase simulation using a three-
phase motor model with accurate low-to-high frequency re-
sponse content is now possible. Three-phase PWM modulators
can interact with cable and motor models, which create up to
three times the bus voltage at the motor terminals, depending on
the dwell time spacing between line-to-line voltage pulses [18].
The dwell time must be estimated ofﬂine before a single-line
model can be used. Thus, it is advantageous to simulate a three-
phase modulator that directly interacts with three-phase cable
and motor circuits for any inverter operating point. Various
three-phase control algorithms such as PWM sine triangle,
sine triangle with third harmonic, space vector, and two-phase
modulation can then be studied for instantaneous line-to-line
0093-9994/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE

## PAGE 3
1234 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
TABLE I
5-, 20-, AND 100-hp INDUCTION MOTORS ’D ESIGN SPECIFICS
TABLE II
5-, 20-, AND 100-hp INDUCTION MOTORS ’P ARAMETERS
PER PHASE AT POWER FREQUENCY (60 Hz)
and line-to-ground waveform simulations. Lastly, use of active
front-end converters with its switching action nonsynchronized
with the inverter makes single-line models less accurate for
determining the line-to-line and line-to-ground voltage stress
on long cables [19]. Thus, a three-phase universal motor model
is required.
Network simulation and modeling have become more impor-
tant for EMI evaluation to existing International Electrotech-
nical Commission standards [20]. Implementing three-phase
motor and cable models that have sufﬁcient low-to-high fre-
quency response is simpler than converting three-phase system
components into equivalent single-line CM and DM models
[21]–[24]. The proposed three-phase model is suitable for both
time-domain and wide-spectrum frequency-domain analyses in
DM and CM circuits to fully understand EMI problems.
To study motor-bearing current issues, single-line indepen-
dent CM models have been extensively used in the literature to
analyze shaft voltage and bearing current [25]–[32]. It is shown
that existing bearing current models are only slightly modiﬁed
for retroﬁt in the proposed three-phase universal motor model.
In this paper, a three-phase model for induction motors is
presented to study the motor terminal overvoltage phenomena.
The model is universal due to the fact that CM, DM, and bearing
models are all combined into one circuit.
In Section II, the impedance variation versus frequency up to
10 MHz is examined using two three-phase induction motors,
namely 5 and 20 hp, with a random wound stator winding
in the Y- and ∆ -connections, respectively. In Section III, the
low- and high-frequency modeling of induction motors are
generally discussed as an introduction to the proposed model.
In Section IV, the proposed three-phase model for a wide
frequency range is introduced, and the DM and CM frequency
responses are examined using the experimentally obtained data
of three 460-V four-pole induction motors, namely 5, 20, and
100 hp (Tables I and II). In Section V, the experimental and
simulation results obtained from running the 100-hp motor by
Fig. 1. Measured 5-hp induction motor DM impedance (magnitude) val-
ues versus frequency for two different winding connections, namely, 230
and 460 V .
Fig. 2. Measured 5- and 20-hp induction motor DM impedance (magnitude)
values versus frequency for a 460-V winding connection.
a voltage source PWM inverter through 40 m of shielded cable
are presented to validate the proposed model.
II. I NDUCTION MOTOR TRANSFER FUNCTION
In this section, the induction motor impedance versus fre-
quency characteristics are examined, and the effects of motor
geometry and winding connection on the impedance response
are analyzed.
A. DM Transfer Function of Induction Motor
Fig. 1 shows the experimentally obtained DM impedance
versus frequency of a 5-hp induction motor investigated for
460- and 230-V stator winding connections, which respec-
tively correspond to internal series and parallel connections.
Also, Fig. 2 shows the experimentally obtained DM impedance

## PAGE 4
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1235
versus frequency of both 5- and 20-hp motors for a 460-V stator
winding connection only.
Fig. 1 demonstrates that the motor stray capacitors are mainly
a function of motor geometry. Low-frequency motor impedance
values below the ﬁrst resonance are mainly L–R equivalent
circuits. In this region, the impedance of the series 460-V
connection has four times the value of the parallel 230-V
connection since a winding inductance varies as N 2 (see Fig. 1
at 100 Hz). Fig. 1 also shows that the ﬁrst resonance frequency
of the 5-hp series connection is almost half the resonance
frequency (fr)of the parallel motor connections.
The fr of the motor impedance is deﬁned as where the
impedance has its maximum magnitude and is calculated by
fr =1 /(2π√LC ), where L and C are the effective inductance
and capacitance values, respectively. The effective inductance
L for a series connection is four times the value in a parallel
connection, and fr is half that of the parallel connection.
Accordingly, the conclusion is that the motor stray capacitance
does not signiﬁcantly vary with changes in stator winding
conﬁguration. That is, in this case, the effective capacitance
value C is mainly a function of the motor geometry or the
motor frame size. It will be shown in Section IV that Y- and
∆ -connections have impacts on the equivalent capacitance
value at high frequencies.
The second objective of this section is to introduce the low-
impedance antiresonance phenomenon observed in the case of
the 20-hp motor at 4.1 MHz in Fig. 2. The motor impedance
at this resonance frequency is 10 Ω . This DM low impedance
at 4.1 MHz will be approximately equivalent to 2.2 Ω in the
CM circuit. This provides a very low impedance path for the
CM leakage current at the low-impedance antiresonance. Thus,
modeling of this phenomenon is of signiﬁcance for EMI analy-
sis in long cable motor drive systems. It is shown later that the
so-called antiresonance is actually caused by the inductance of
the ﬁrst few turns of the winding. These observations are further
discussed in Section IV, where the proposed motor model is
derived based on the IEEE Standard 112 (T-equivalent) circuit.
B. Testing of DM Transfer Function
DM testing was performed with the phase-A motor lead
as one probe and the phase-B and phase-C motor leads tied
together to form the second probe. The measurements were
taken using HP4284 (20 Hz to 1.0 MHz), HP4285 (75 kHz to
30 MHz), and AP200 (20 Hz to 15 MHz) LCR meters in Z –θ
(impedance magnitude and phase angle) mode [33], [34]. The
recommended test procedure is to use an ungrounded motor
frame. It was observed that grounding the motor frame resulted
in signiﬁcant measurement errors at high frequency. This is
attributed to errors in the instrument’s impedance calculation
procedure due to the LCR meter’s two-lead source voltage
driving capacitive current to ground that does not return on the
two leads [35].
C. Testing of CM Transfer Function
CM testing was performed with the motor frame as one probe
and the phase-A,- B, and -Cmotor leads tied together to form
Fig. 3. IEEE 112 recommended per-phase low-frequency equivalent circuit.
the second probe. Impedance measurements versus calculated
DM and CM transfer functions using the proposed induction
motor model are demonstrated later in Section IV-E.
III. M ODELING INDUCTION MOTOR
FREQUENCY RESPONSE
In this section, existing lumped- and distributed-parameter
models for the analysis of the low- and high-frequency behavior
of induction motors are described.
A. Low-Frequency Response of Induction Motor
The low-frequency response of the polyphase induction mo-
tor has historically been studied since its origin. The IEEE
Standard 112 was established to obtain test methods and pa-
rameters for a low frequency (50, 60, and 400 Hz) per phase
T-equivalent induction motor model in Fig. 3 [36]. The rotor
circuit and neutral are actually physically isolated from the line
side stator neutral by the air gap in Fig. 3. Also, the rotor fre-
quency (slip frequency) is different from the stator (or line) fre-
quency. Users desire this low-frequency transfer function model
to obtain the line side electrical quantities (frequency, current,
power factor, and efﬁciency) for the given mechanical output
quantities (power, horsepower, and torque). For convenience of
analysis, rotor electrical quantities have thus been referred by
stator-to-rotor turns ratio to the stator with animpliedelectrical
connection to the stator neutral. In the low-frequency range,
the applied voltage is uniformly distributed through the stator
winding coils. Substantial literature exists on obtaining these
model parameters from mathematical calculations, heuristic
equations, and ﬁnite-element analysis (FEA). IEEE Standard
112 is a universally accepted test method to verify the ac-
curacy of these model parameters that are readily obtainable
by all users.
B. Mid-Frequency Response of Induction Motor
An accurate mid-frequency response (400 Hz to 20 kHz), as
related to PWM ac drives, would be correlated with the carrier
frequency motor ripple current and its associated heating in the
motor copper and core laminations.
C. High-Frequency Response of Induction Motor
The high-frequency response of the polyphase induc-
tion motor has recently been studied. High-frequency motor

## PAGE 5
1236 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Fig. 4. Distributed high-frequency parameter model for stator windings.
models can be mainly divided into two classes, i.e., distributed
and lumped parameter models. The initial need concerned the
analysis of high-frequency high-magnitude surge effects on
the utility-connected motor stator windings [4], [8]. Analy-
sis methods typically include use of a distributed parameter
model in Fig. 4 to analyze the distribution of surge voltage
within the winding. FEA methods have been used to obtain
a distributed parameter model for the analysis of the over-
voltage and voltage ringing phenomena at the terminals of
induction motors, which are associated with the interaction
of motor surge impedance, long cable surge impedance, and
PWM drive operation [36]. This paper showed that the rotor
circuit is not involved in any high-frequency-related effects
due to the minimal ﬂux penetration into the rotor circuit at
high frequencies. Investigations of [5] further show that the
high-frequency-voltage rise-time-related effects of ASDs on the
DM-reﬂected wave voltage at the motor terminals is mainly
conﬁned to the ﬁrst few turns and at most the ﬁrst coil group
in a multicoil motor winding. This suggests that the low-
frequency rotor circuit parameters need not be modiﬁed since
it has no effect at high frequencies. Then, to obtain a high-
frequency model, the ﬁrst of many distributed sections of
Fig. 4 is integrated into the existing low-frequency portion
of Fig. 3.
High-frequency motor models have a response that is
predominantly capacitive. These circuits are needed for the
analysis of CM leakage current that occurs due to the inter-
action of line-to-ground stator winding slot capacitance with
PWM drives. This is the main cause of EMI in ASD sys-
tems [20]. Also, the bearing current and shaft voltage mod-
els are capacitive in nature [25]–[32]. The existing problem
in the ﬁeld today is that researchers are proposing various
individual high-frequency circuits [9], [15], [16], [21]–[24]
to describe the reﬂected wave, CM current, and bearing cur-
rent/shaft voltage. Indeed, many of them only address one
issue and in addition ignore the low-frequency desired elec-
trical stator quantities and rotor mechanical output quantities.
Most of these high-frequency circuit models typically have
parameters with no direct correlation to the induction motor
geometry, since they are curve ﬁtted to match a desired transfer
function.
Thus, this paper proposes a three-phase universal induc-
tion motor model that is an extension of the standard
T-equivalent circuit. This model uniﬁes CM, DM, and bearing
circuit models over the 10-Hz–10-MHz frequency range and
has extended parameters that are realizable based on machine
Fig. 5. Proposed per-phase universal induction motor model.
geometry. The proposed motor model is introduced in the next
section.
IV . PROPOSED MODEL
To construct an accurate low-to-high frequency range trans-
fer function model of the induction motor, one signiﬁcant
objective of this paper was to build the needed mid-to-high
frequency circuit model extension around the existing and accu-
rate physical realizable quantities of the standard low-frequency
equivalent circuit.
A. Proposed per-Phase Universal Induction Motor Model
Motor behavior at steady-state conditions and low frequen-
cies is best described by the well-known standard T-equivalent
circuit in Fig. 3. In the low-frequency range, the voltage
is distributed uniformly through the stator winding turns. In
the medium-frequency range, the motor behavior can be best
represented by a distributed parameter model in which the
impact of rotor circuit is negligible and the motor behavior
alternates between being capacitive and inductive. However, in
this paper, motor behavior from 10 Hz to 10 MHz is studied.
In this frequency range, typically one antiresonance and two
resonances are observed, as detailed in Section II.
In order to model the aforementioned resonance and antires-
onance frequencies, three capacitors C
sf−eﬀective, C sf−0, and
C sw are proposed as additions to the T-equivalent motor model
in Fig. 3 to represent the mid-to-high frequency range of motor
behavior characteristics. C sf capacitance is the total stator-to-
frame capacitance. C sf−eﬀective is the effective stator-to-frame
capacitance of the ﬁrst slot per phase in Fig. 5. C sf−0 is the
stator-to-frame capacitance in the Y neutral. C sw capacitance
is the stator interturn capacitance per phase. Fig. 5 shows the
proposed motor model in which the resonance frequencies are
obtained by shorting all resistors and solving the quadratic
equation α(ω
2
r )2 − βω 2
r +1=0 .T h u s ,w eh a v e
fr1 and fr2 = 1
2π
√(
β ±
√
β2 − 4α
)
/2α (1)
where α = L lsL lrC sw C sf, β =( L ls+ L lr)C sf + L lsC sw , and
fr1 <f r2.

## PAGE 6
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1237
Fig. 6. Measured (Slip =1 ) versus calculated 5-hp 460-V induction motor
DM impedances (magnitude) versus frequency.
Fig. 7. Measured (Slip =1 ) versus calculated 5-hp 460-V induction motor
DM impedances (phase angle) versus frequency.
It should be noted that in (1), the effect of the magnetizing
inductance is negligible since L m is in parallel with the rotor
leakage inductance L lrand the fact that L m ≫ L lr.
As a result of including C sf−eﬀective and C sw capacitors
into the standard T-equivalent circuit, this circuit represents the
motor behavior over a wide range of frequencies, as shown in
Figs. 6 and 7. In order to verify the proposed motor model,
two induction motors were randomly selected and tested using
a frequency analyzer. Measured results under LCR test have
s =1 , and the frequency responses obtained from the proposed
model calculations are compared in Figs. 6 and 7. In these
ﬁgures, the motor’s impedance frequency response, magnitude,
and phase angle are shown over a wide range of frequencies
from 100 Hz to 10 MHz. These ﬁgures also show the calculated
impedance frequency response for rotor full load slip s =
0.027. As observed, motor speed (or motor load level) has no
signiﬁcant impact on motor impedance over the mid-to-high
Fig. 8. Measured 1-hp 460-V induction motor impedance (magnitude) versus
frequency: the inﬂuence of removing the rotor on the DM impedance transfer
function [14].
frequency range. The proposed model curves closely match
the high-frequency DM curve as well as the ﬁrst and second
resonance points. The T-Equivalent circuit shows correct motor
impedance only up to fr, as expected, due to the lack of
resonance capacitors. This observation is explored further in
Section VI.
A key issue is being able to match both DM and CM transfer
functions for all frequencies in the proposed model knowing
skin and proximity effects versus frequency exist. In the fol-
lowing subsection, the effect of rotor circuit will be discussed
followed by a parameter identiﬁcation procedure that insures
both DM and CM transfer functions are correct.
B. Rotor Inﬂuence at High Frequency in the Proposed Model
Fig. 8 shows that the basic L–R series impedance below
resonance is lowered due to the removal of L lr and R r/s.
Reﬂected wave overvoltage and EMI analysis is concerned with
frequencies correlated with voltage pulse rise time deﬁned by
1/(πt
r). Typical ASD rise times of 20 ns–2 µs result in a
frequency range of 150 kHz to 16 MHz. Fig. 8 demonstrates
that the DM impedance is strictly dictated by stator parameters,
so the low-frequency rotor circuit can be left as is in the new
proposed model without error as could also be concluded from
Figs. 6 and 7 under full-load and no-load conditions.
C. Parameter Identiﬁcation Procedure for Proposed Model
1) Stator ResistanceR
s:To insure that the fundamental
frequency (50, 60, or 400 Hz) current ﬂow in the model
results in correct output fundamental power and torque, the
R
s value must be the manufacturer’s hot or cold resistance
of the winding. Wire copper losses at harmonic frequencies,
carrier frequency, and reﬂected wave ring frequencies must be
accounted for in the R
sw damping term.
2) Core Loss ResistanceR core: R core and L m appear to
have an effect on rounding the reﬂected wave ringing wave

## PAGE 7
1238 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Fig. 9. Stator winding capacitances. (a) Csf capacitance-to-ground. (b) Stator Csf−slot slot capacitance-to-ground.
shape. For one speciﬁc manufacturer, the standard 460-V
60-Hz four-pole motor R core values versus horsepower size
were found to follow R core = 6300 (hp)−0.6958 . The impor-
tance of R core is greater at higher horsepower, where it affects
the terminal reﬂection coefﬁcient by approaching the 50- to
120-Ω cable surge impedance values deﬁned in [3].
3) Rotor ResistanceR r, Rotor InductanceL lr, and Slips:
Section IV-B justiﬁes using the manufacturer T-equivalent cir-
cuit values as is for the proposed motor model. There is
rotor inductance skin effect and deep bar skin effects of rotor
resistance, but these variations do not appreciably change the
shape of the DM impedance curve versus frequency.
4) Magnetizing InductanceL
m :The IEEE Standard 112
fundamental frequency circuit value is used. It should be noted
that the effect of the magnetizing inductance is negligible since
it is in parallel with the rotor leakage inductance in helping
deﬁne (1) resonance frequencies.
5) Stator Leakage InductanceL
ls:The IEEE Standard 112
fundamental frequency circuit value is also used. However, the
reduction of L lsinductance at harmonic and carrier frequencies
is recognized to be a secondary effect. This may account for
not having perfect matching of the DM transfer function over
the entire frequency range.
6) Stator First Turn Leakage InductanceηL
ls:This term is
one of the critical parameters in deﬁning the DM motor high-
frequency impedance, predicting the antiresonance point of
Fig. 2, and setting correct EMI leakage current to ground in
the CM circuit. The term ηL
ls is used to account for the
fact that only a fraction of the total stator leakage inductance
is attributed to the high-frequency antiresonance point ( ∼3–
10 MHz), speciﬁcally the ﬁrst few turns in the ﬁrst slot
of the entry winding. Thus, ηL
ls is (the ﬁrst few turns in
the ﬁrst slot/total turns per phase)2 × L ls. Winding data and
machine geometry could be obtained from the manufacturer.
The antiresonance point and ηLls are further discussed in
Section IV-D.
If the value of ηLls is too high, then this inductance isolates
the rest of the winding from the cable, and what appears in the
reﬂected wave DM simulation is a wave shape that takes on the
appearance of an ideal open circuit. If ηL
ls is high, then this
inductance also isolates the C sf−slot term, and the current-to-
ground peak and ring wave shape will not be correct in the CM
simulation.
7) Total Stator-to-Frame Capacitance per PhaseC sf−total:
Fig. 9(a) shows a physical representation of C sf stator winding
capacitance to frame ground. For frequencies greater than the
ﬁrst resonant frequency (fr1), the stator slot winding-to-frame
capacitance (C sf−slot) plays an important role in describing
the DM and CM motor behavior at high frequencies, while
C sf−total plays a role in matching the CM transfer function
at low frequency. C sf−total is calculated from the machine
geometry by analyzing each slot capacitance to ground and
multiplying by the number of stator slots. Each stator slot can
be approximately considered as a rectangular-shaped conductor
with L
stack stator length, w slotaverage width, and dslotaverage
depth [see Fig. 9(b)]. Assuming all sides of this conductor
are equipotential, the capacitance value between the conductor
(stator windings in each slot) and the motor frame can be
obtained as
C
sf−slot= εoL slotL stack
ktδ1
εr1
+ δ2
εr2
+ δ3
εr3
(2)
where L slot is the stator slot circumference that can be ap-
proximated as L slot≈ 2dslot+1 .5w slot, and δ1(0.38 <δ 1 <
0.63mm)and δ2(0.38 <δ 2 < 0.63mm)are the thicknesses of
the slot wall and wire insulations [see Fig. 9(b)] with relative
permittivity of ε
r1 (3.0 <ε r1 < 3.2) and εr2 (3.5 <ε r2 <
4.0), respectively. The slot wall insulation is 0.35–0.6 mm
(∼0.014–0.024 in) Class F Duroid polyester ﬁber paper with
heat-resistant resin. As seen in Fig. 9(b), the top stick insulation
is double along some part of the stator wall. Accordingly, a
correction thickness factor of 1.0 <k t < 1.5 is deﬁned here
to take into account this extra insulation thickness. A third
important factor in Fig. 9(b) is the possibility of a random small
air gap (0.02 <δ 3 < 0.3 mm)between the slot liner-to-frame.
The effective C sf−total and C sf−slot may change by 2 : 1 with

## PAGE 8
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1239
Fig. 10. Measured stator winding capacitances-to-frame for the 5-hp motor.
TABLE III
5-, 20-, AND 100-hp INDUCTION MOTORS ’
CALCULATED CAPACITANCE VALUES
liner air gaps, which makes calculations less precise. For a
motor with N slot stator slots and a double-layerwinding, the
total stator winding to frame capacitance can be obtained as
C sf−total =( N slot× C sf−slot)/2. (3)
8) Stator-to-Frame CapacitanceC sf−slot andC sf−eﬀective:
Fig. 10 shows the measured frequency variation of C sf for one
motor lead and C sf for all three leads tied together with respect
to frame ground. Note that the one-lead capacitance is much
lower in the 100-kHz to 16-MHz range than the low-frequency
value, and that it is also constant. This is explained using the
distributed parameter model in Fig. 4. At low frequencies, the
entire summation of multiple sections contributes to C
sf,b u t
at high frequencies, only one section is functional, and the
rest are impedance isolated. The 300-pF value for frequencies
greater than 100 kHz agrees with the calculated C
sf−eﬀective
for one slot in Table III and veriﬁes the single-slot theory
for DM high-frequency response. Note that the three-lead CM
measurement in Fig. 10 for frequencies greater than 100 kHz
is approximately three times the single-lead value. This is
because the ﬁrst distributed sections of all three leads are the
only sections contributing in parallel, so the three-lead value is
approximately three times the one-lead value. Note also that
the one-lead and three-lead measurements at low frequency
are not three times but the same value. This is because the
single-lead value can go through the motor neutral and pick up
the stator-to-frame capacitance in the other two phases. In the
Fig. 11. Delta-wound machines have twice effective slot capacitances-to-
ground.
10- to 100-kHz range, the three-lead value is picking up more
end-terminal-distributed sections so its value is higher than the
one-lead measurement.
Another machine geometry factor in Fig. 11 is that a
∆ -connection has twice C sf−slot compared to a Y-connection.
Moreover, the number of parallel circuits may also change the
effective stator-to-frame capacitance value C sf−eﬀective.
9) CM Stator-to-Frame CapacitanceC sf−0:Based on prior
discussion, C sf−0 is the remaining stator CM capacitance-to-
ground lumped in the neutral Y . Accordingly, the following
value is used in the proposed three-phase model:
C sf−0 = C sf−total− 3C sf−eﬀective. (4)
10) Stator Turn-to-Turn Winding CapacitanceC sw :This
parameter can be determined in a number of ways. The ﬁrst
heuristic method is based on many tests performed in a previous
work on more than 50 different motors [14], and noting that
the second resonance frequency is approximately twice or less
than the ﬁrst resonance frequency. That is, the interturn stray
capacitance can be obtained as a function of C
sf−eﬀective,
C sw =( fr2/fr1)2C sf−eﬀective. The second method is to solve
(1) for C sw assuming fr1 is known.
11) Stator Turn-to-Turn Damping Resistance in Winding
R sw :This term accounts for the skin and proximity effect of
the wire and high-frequency core loss. Quite simply, at ﬁrst
resonance peak (Fig. 2), the DM impedance measured is equal
to (3/2)R sw , i.e., the damping resistance for a parallel resonant
circuit. It has been found that the core loss resistor R core
does not have a signiﬁcant impact on damping. Calculation of
wire skin and proximity effects for the wire thickness used is
possible but beyond the scope of this paper. The wire skin and
proximity effect factors at the resonant frequency multiplied by
the R
dc value results in a series value that could be converted
to a parallel R sw value.
12) Stator Initial Frame-to-Ground Damping Resistance
µR s:This component is the ac resistance of the fractional part
of the total stator R s due to the ηLls segmentation described.
The 60-Hz µR s value is proportional to the stator resistance,
and a multiplying factor of 10–20 is used for ac skin and prox-
imity effects. In addition, it also encompasses the resistivity
of steel laminations from the slots to where the motor ground
wire in the junction box is connected. This value needs further
research and was not accounted for in this paper. The term

## PAGE 9
1240 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Fig. 12. Tapped stator winding from [5] used to justify the antiresonance
point. (a) Measured stator winding voltage from end turn to ﬁrst few turns
[5]. (b) Measured stator winding end voltage to tap in per unit versus tap turn
#/total turns.
µR s affects the peak CM current as well as the damping of
oscillations in the CM current to ground.
D. Antiresonance Phenomenon
This section investigates the correlation between tapped
stator testing with the 4.5-MHz antiresonance phenomenon
observed in Fig. 2. A six-pole 7.5-hp 460-V tapped stator motor
in [5] was random wound with 19 turns per coil and 18 coils in
series per phase for a total of 342 turns per phase. The 1- µs,
200-ns, and 50-ns pulse voltage rise times in Fig. 12(a) cor-
respond to equivalent frequencies of 318 kHz, 1.6 MHz, and
6.3 MHz. The 1- µs and 0.2- µs rise times do not excite the
antiresonant frequency, but the 50-ns rise time can excite the
5-MHz antiresonance point, which results in the oscillation of
200 ns (5 MHz, Fig. 12). DM antiresonance also occurred in
the other motors tested.
Fig. 12(b) shows that the ﬁrst few turns (four turns) divided
by the total number of turns (342) result in “ x =0 .02” axis
entry and a high 0.35-pu peak of line-to-line reﬂected wave
voltage for 50-ns impulse-type voltage rise times. The ﬁrst
coil group at 0.16 pu has already obtained the highest peak
voltage possible. These data justify that correct reﬂected wave
Fig. 13. Measured (dotted line) versus calculated (solid line) 20-hp 460-V in-
duction motor DM impedance (magnitude and phase) values versus frequency.
Fig. 14. Measured (dotted line) versus calculated (solid line) 100-hp 460-V
induction motor DM impedance (magnitude and phase) values versus
frequency.
waveforms are obtained by using just C sf−slot deﬁned by the
ﬁrst coil and ﬁrst slot.
E. DM/CM Transfer Function Veriﬁcation of Proposed Model
To verify the proposed motor model, 20- and 100-hp in-
duction motors were tested. The measured motor DM im-
pedance frequency response using a frequency analyzer, which
shows magnitudes and phase angles, are plotted over a wide
100-Hz to 10-MHz frequency range. Figs. 13 and 14 show good
comparison between the test results and the proposed model
calculated frequency response in both “ Magnitude and Phase
Angle.”
Of interest is the mismatch between the LCR -measured
(then s =1 ) DM impedance of the 100-hp ∆ -connection and
the proposed model impedance using the exact low-frequency

## PAGE 10
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1241
Fig. 15. Measured (dotted line) versus calculated (solid) 5-hp 460-V induc-
tion motor CM impedance (magnitude and phase) values versus frequency.
T-equivalent circuit components in the 20-Hz to 10-kHz range.
The measured dc resistance with a milliohm meter was found
to match the IEEE 112 R s parameter. One explanation is
that DM testing with two leads shorted to one LCR input
and with another motor lead tied to the other LCR input
energizes only two windings in a ∆ -connection as opposed to a
Y-connection where all three motor leads are energized. Also,
the small exciting voltage (20 mV–2 V) from the LCR meter
may bias the stator core in the very widely nonlinear part of
the dc magnetization curve, which results in an incorrect L m
value. The DM impedance was indeed changing at frequencies
less than 1 kHz as the LCR source voltage was varied. The
proposed modiﬁed T-model with s =1 assumes that the rotor
leakage inductance L lr is much less than L m so that the input
inductance is approximately equal to L ls+ L lr. In reality, at
low ﬂux levels, the rotorN s/N r transformation may be isolated
so that the input inductance appears mostly as the sum of L ls
and a widely varying L m .
The measured versus proposed model that calculated the CM
frequency response in Figs. 15 and 16 for 5 and 100 hp also
shows a good match. The lumpedC
sf−0 in the neutral of Fig. 17
matches the low-frequency response, while C sf−slot matches
the high-frequency response. The resonance impedance wave
shape is similar but not exact in frequency value due to single
lumped parameter selection.
F. Proposed Three-Phase Universal Induction Motor Model
Fig. 17 shows a three-phase version of the proposed uni-
versal induction motor model with the addition of the bearing
current–shaft voltage model to the stator neutral.
G. Bearing Current/Shaft Voltage Model Addition
Fig. 18 shows prior CM equivalent system single-line models
for shaft voltage/bearing current investigation [25]. Although
small differences occur, this model has general agreement with
other single-line-bearing models [26]–[31]. The inverter drive
Fig. 16. Measured (dotted line) versus calculated (solid) 100-hp 460-V induc-
tion motor CM impedance (magnitude and phase) values versus frequency.
is shown as a stator neutral-to-ground zero-sequence voltage
source (Vsng ). The prior motor-bearing model in Fig. 18 con-
sists of CM motor capacitances: CM stator-to-frame (C sf),C M
stator-to-rotor (C sr)across the air gap, and CM rotor-to-frame
(C rf). Test procedures to obtain these motor zero-sequence
parameters from the machine geometry as well as parameter
variation with the motor’s output power (in horsepower) were
outlined in [36]. The bearing model combines the bearing
ball/race resistance (R
b) in series with a parallel combination
of the bearing oil ﬁlm capacitance (C b)and a nonlinear device
(Z l) accounting for the random charging and discharging of
the rotor shaft due to asperity point contacts puncturing the
oil ﬁlm [38].
The proposed universal induction motor model for shaft
voltage/bearing current investigation consists of a three-phase
PWM inverter modulator, three-phase cable impedance, and
modiﬁcation to prior motor-bearing CM model circuit. The
advantage of the new concept is that the three-phase modulated
zero-sequence voltage generation V
sng vector directly interacts
with the cable and motor circuits for any inverter operating
point. The prior model Vsng waveform was ofﬂine estimated
for a single operating point and recreated in the CM model.
The proposed motor-bearing circuit concept is as follows.
Since Vsng is the stator neutral-to-ground zero-sequence voltage
source, the prior CM-bearing model in Fig. 18 can be placed
at the identical V
sng point in the proposed three-phase model
(Fig. 17). The bearing voltage ratio (BVR) previously derived
remains the same, since
BVR = Vrg
Vsng
= C sr
C sr + C b + C rf
(5)
shows that BVR is the divider ratio only between motor CM
capacitances C b, C sr, and C rf from the Vsng source. The Vrg
shaft voltage will remain as typically 10% to 15% of the stator
neutral voltage switching pattern [38]. Modiﬁcation from the
prior bearing model is through removing the old CM C sf from
Vsng and splitting into ﬁrst slot C sf−slot values in each phase

## PAGE 11
1242 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Fig. 17. Proposed three-phase universal induction motor model.
Fig. 18. Prior shaft voltage/bearing current single-line zero-sequence
model [25].
in Fig. 5 and C sf−0 value lumped as a Y neutral component in
Fig. 17. This performs the same bearing model function as well
as providing accurate motor CM ground current waveforms and
matching CM transfer function versus frequency.
V. V
ERIFICATION OF THE THREE -PHASE MODEL
A. Model Veriﬁcation: Measured Versus Simulated Waveforms
A 100-hp motor was tested in Fig. 19 with a voltage-source
PWM inverter with carrier frequency of 4 kHz through 40 m
of #2 American wire gauge shielded cable. The system was
also simulated with Matlab SimPowerSystems [17] using a
distributed-parameter three-phase cable model that exists in the
toolbox and the proposed universal three-phase motor model
in Fig. 17. The cable model in Matlab is based on Bergeron’s
traveling-wave method [8]. The cable parameter identiﬁcation
procedures for three-phase cables are found in [11]. The motor
is assumed to operate at constant speed. Simulation results and
corresponding test results are shown in Figs. 20–23.
Fig. 20(a) shows the simulated motor voltage. The reﬂected
wave overvoltage due to the fast rise time IGBT is approx-
imately 200% of the dc-bus voltage. Fig. 20(b) shows the
experimentally obtained data. The simulation results are in very
good agreement with the experimental data for peak values,
waveform shape, and ringing frequencies. It is interesting how
the added capacitors C
sf−eﬀective are involved with the line-to-
line transient voltage.
Fig. 21(a) shows the CM current at the motor terminals from
simulation, and Fig. 21(b) shows that with the experimental
results. As seen, the CM current obtained from simulation is in
good agreement with the experimental data. Accordingly, the
proposed three-phase motor model can be used for both DM
and CM system analyses. The ring frequency obtained from
simulation closely matches the experimental data having 1.5µs
(667 kHz) with some very high ring frequency (5 MHz) spikes
that are excited. Damping times are 7 µs in both simulated and
measured waveforms. The peak simulation values are two times
higher since a ferrite CM saturating inductor (∼ 3A I
sat)used
in the drive was not simulated. Also, the motor steel lamination
resistivity in the stack was not determined and modeled.

## PAGE 12
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1243
Fig. 19. Typical drive/long cable/motor system with distributed-parameter cable model of Matlab and proposed three-phase induction motor model.
Fig. 20. (a) Motor voltage obtained from simulation results of the inverter
(risetime = 200 ns)—cable (40 m)—induction motor (100 hp) system shown
in Fig. 19. (b) Motor voltage obtained from experimental results of the inverter
(risetime = 200 ns)—cable (40 m)—induction motor (100 hp) system shown
in Fig. 19.
The stator neutral-to-ground voltage is simulated in
Fig. 22(a) along with the shaft-to-ground voltage [Fig. 22(b)],
which shows the BVR of 15% that is in agreement with that
tested in prior work on bearing currents [25].
The line current is shown in Fig. 23(a) over one cycle.
The signiﬁcance being that not only is the fundamental low-
frequency current for the operating point obtainable but also the
Fig. 21. (a) CM current simulated at 100-hp motor input terminals. (b) CM
current measured at 100-hp motor input terminals.
ASD carrier-based mid-frequency range ripple current and the
high-frequency CM and DM motor line-charging current spikes
are simultaneously visible in the expanded waveform shown in
Fig. 23(b).
VI. O
BSERV ATIONS AND FUTURE WORK
This paper has developed a universal induction motor model
based on a generic per phase model topology and using machine

## PAGE 13
1244 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Fig. 22. (a) CM voltage at 100-hp motor input terminals. (b) Shaft voltage
Vrg of 100-hp motor showing BVR divider action.
speciﬁcs to assist in determining the model parameters. An
observation from magnitude and phase angle plots in Figs. 6
and 7 for the IEEE Standard 112 T-equivalent circuit with slip
equal to 1 shows that the corresponding phase angle goes from
85
◦ at low frequency, then dips to 70 ◦ at 47.4 kHz, and then
rises back to 85 ◦ at higher frequency. The 47.4 kHz exactly
corresponds to fr1. Accordingly, the implication is that fr1
can be predicted even without knowing the stray capacitance
values C sf and C sw from the impedance phase angle of the
IEEE Standard 112 T-equivalent circuit while the slip is equal
to 1. Future research needs to determine if this phenomenon is
an anomaly or appears on every motor.
VII. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, a new model for induction motors has been
presented. The proposed model represents the motor’s behavior
over a wide range of frequencies and can be used for low
frequencies as well as reﬂected wave, bearing current, and CM
studies. Experimental results have been presented to validate
the motor model for long cable applications on ASDs. The
Fig. 23. (a) Line current simulation of the 100-hp motor showing fundamental
current, ripple current, and CM to ground current. (b) Expanded line current
simulation of the 100-hp motor showing fundamental current, ripple current,
and CM-to-ground current.
proposed model may also be used for the analysis of utility-
generated surges on ac-line-connected motors.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank M. Melﬁ and C. Jamison
of Rockwell Automation/Reliance Electric for providing the
induction motor parameters and D. Kirschnik of Rockwell
Automation/Allen–Bradley Mequon Drives for test support.
R
EFERENCES
[1] R. Kerkman, G. Skibinski, and D. Schlegel, “Unintended consequence of
low risetime IGBTs,” presented at the International Electric Machines and
Drives Conf. (IEMDC), Madison, WI, Jun. 2003.
[2] E. Persson, “Transient effects in application of PWM inverters to induc-
tion motors,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 1095–1101,
Sep./Oct. 1992.
[3] G. Skibinski, “Design methodology of a cable terminator to reduce re-
ﬂected voltage on AC motors,” in Conf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting,
San Diego, CA, Oct. 6–10, 1996, pp. 153–161.
[4] A. Narang, B. K. Gupta, E. P. Dick, and D. K. Sharam, “Measurement
and analysis of surge distribution in motor stator windings,” IEEE Trans.
Energy Convers., vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 126–134, Mar. 1989.

## PAGE 14
MIRAFZAL et al.: INDUCTION MOTOR MODEL WITH LOW-TO-HIGH FREQUENCY-RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS 1245
[5] M. Melﬁ, A. M. J. Sung, S. Bell, and G. L. Skibinski, “Effect of
surge voltage risetime on the insulation of low-voltage machines fed by
PWM converters,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 766–775,
Jul./Aug. 1998.
[6] G. Skibinski, J. Erdman, J. Pankau, and J. Campbell, “Assessing AC
motor dielectric withstand capability to reﬂected wave stress using
corona testers,” in Conf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, San Diego, CA,
Oct. 6–10, 1996, pp. 694–702.
[7] S. Bell and J. Sung, “Will your motor survive a new adjustable
speed drive,” in Proc. IEEE PCIC, Philadelphia, PA, Sep. 23–25, 1996,
pp. 125–130.
[8] H. W Dommel, “Digital computer solution of electromagnetic transients
in single and multiple networks,”IEEETrans.PowerApp.Syst.,v o l .P A S -
88, no. 4, pp. 388–398, Apr. 1969.
[9] G. Skibinski, R. J. Kerkman, D. Leggate, J. Pankau, and D. Schlegel,
“Reﬂected wave modeling techniques for PWM AC motor drives,” in
Proc. IEEE APEC, 1998, pp. 1021–1029.
[10] D. Hyypio, “Simulation of cable and winding response to steep fronted
voltage waves,” in Conf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, Orlando, FL,
Oct. 8–12, 1995, pp. 800–806.
[11] G. Skibinski, R. Tallam, R. Reese, B. Buchholz, and R. Lukaszewski,
“Common-mode and differential-mode analysis of 3 phase cables for
PWM AC drives,” in Conf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting,T a m p a ,F L ,
Oct. 6, 2006, pp. 880–888.
[12] A. von Jouanne, P. Enjeti, and W. Gray, “The effect of long motor leads on
PWM inverter fed AC motor drive systems,” inProc.IEEEAPEC, Dallas,
TX, Mar. 6–9, 1995, pp. 592–597.
[13] D. Schlegel, G. Wrate, R. Kerkman, and G. Skibinski, “Resonant tank
motor model for voltage reﬂection simulations with PWM drives,” in
Proc. IEEE IEMDC, Seattle, W A, May 9–12, 1999, pp. 463–465.
[14] D. Schlegel, “Development of a high frequency induction motor model
for reﬂected wave simulations,” inMasters Design Project. Milwaukee,
WI: Milwaukee School Of Engineering, Apr. 1999.
[15] E. Zhong, T. A. Lipo, and S. Rossiter, “Transient modeling and analysis of
motor terminal voltage on PWM inverter-fed AC motor drives,” in Conf.
Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, Oct. 1998, pp. 773–780.
[16] A. F. Moreira, T. A. Lipo, G. Venkataramanan, and S. Bernet, “High-
frequency modeling for cable and induction motor overvoltage studies
in long cable drives,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 1297–
1306, Sep./Oct. 2002.
[17] Matlab SimPowerSystems. Natick, MA: The Math Works, Inc, 2006.
[18] R. Kerkman, D. Legagte, and G. Skibinski, “Interaction of drive modula-
tion and cable parameters on ac motor transients,” inConf.Rec.IEEEIAS
Annu. Meeting, Oct. 1996, pp. 143–152.
[19] A. M. de Broe, A. L. Julian, and T. A. Lipo, “Neutral-to-ground voltage
minimization in a PWM-rectiﬁer/inverter conﬁguration,” in Proc. 6th
Int. Conf. Power Electron. Variable Speed Drives, Sep. 23–25, 1996,
pp. 564–568.
[20] G. Skibinski, R. J. Kerkman, and D. Schlegel, “EMI emissions of modern
PWM AC drives,”Ind. Appl. Mag., vol. 5, no. 6, pp. 47–81.
[21] A. Consoli, G. Oriti, A. Testa, and A. Julian, “Induction motor modeling
for common mode and differential mode emission evaluation,” in Conf.
Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, 1996, pp. 595–599.
[22] M. Schinkel, S. Weber, S. Gutkowski, W. John, and H. Reichl, “Efﬁcient
HF modeling and model parameterization of induction machines for time
and frequency domain simulations,” in Proc. IEEE APEC, Dallas, TX,
2006, pp. 1181–1186.
[23] A. Boglietti and E. Carpaneto, “Induction motor high frequency
model,” in Conf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, Phoenix, AR,
Oct. 1999, pp. 1551–1558.
[24] A. Boglietti and E. Carpaneto, “An accurate induction motor high fre-
quency model for electromagnetic compatibility analysis,” Electr. Power
Components Syst., vol. 29, no. 3, pp. 191–205, Mar. 2001.
[25] R. Kerkman, D. Schlegel, and G. Skibinski, “Characteristics of shaft
voltage and bearing currents,” Ind. Appl. Mag., vol. 3, no. 6, pp. 21–32,
Nov./Dec. 1997.
[26] S. Chen, T. Lipo, and D. Fitzgerald, “Modeling of motor bearing currents
in PWM inverter drives,”Trans.Ind.Appl., vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 1365–1370,
Nov./Dec. 1996.
[27] A. Muetze and A. Binder, “Calculation of motor capacitances for
prediction of discharge bearing currents in machines of inverter based
drive systems,” in Proc. IEEE IEMDC, San Antonio, TX, May 2005,
p. 264.
[28] P. Link, “Minimizing electric bearing current in ASD systems,”IEEEInd.
Appl. Mag., vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 55–65, Jul./Aug. 1999.
[29] K. Iimori, K. Shinohara, and M. Aikou, “A common mode equivalent
circuit usable for calculating CM current and bearing current of induction
motor driven by PWM inverter,” Trans. Inst. Electr. Eng. Jpn., vol. 125,
no. 5, p. 438, 2005.
[30] J. Ollila, T. Hammar, J. Lisakkala, and H. Tuusa, “A new reason for bear-
ing current damages in variable speed drives,” inProc.EPE. Trondheim,
Norway, Sep. 1997.
[31] S. Gutkowski, S. Weber, M. Schinkel, W. John, and H. Reichl, “Trou-
bleshooting and ﬁxing of inverter driven induction motor bearing
currents in existing plants of large size an evaluation of possible miti-
gation techniques in practical applications,” in Proc. IEEE APEC, 2006,
pp. 225–230.
[32] R. Naik, T. Nondahl, M. Melﬁ, R. Schiferl, and J. Wang, “Shaft voltage
prediction in induction motors fed by PWM ac drives,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Appl., vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 1294–1300, Sep./Oct. 2003.
[33] HewlettPackard/Agilent Model HP4284A LCR Meter, 20 Hz–1 MHz.
[Online]. Available: www.agilent.com
[34] AP Instruments Model 200 Analog Network Analyzer, 0.01 Hz–15 MHz,
p. 95 492, Windsor, CA. [Online]. Available: www.apinstruments.com
[35] D. Maky, D. Novotny, and C. Thompson, “The inﬂuence of winding
capacitance on high frequency time harmonic losses in Induction motors,”
inConf. Rec. IEEE IAS Annu. Meeting, Oct. 1992, p. 33.
[36] IEEE Standard Test Procedure for Polyphase Induction Motors and Gen-
erators,IEEE Standard 112, 1991.
[37] G. Suresh, H. A. Toliyat, D. A. Rendusara, and P. N. Enjeti, “Predicting
the transient effects of PWM voltage waveform on the stator windings of
random wound induction motors,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 14,
no. 1, pp. 23–30, Jan. 1999.
[38] D. Busse, J. Erdman, R. J. Kerkman, D. Schlegel, and G. Skibinski,
“System electrical parameters and their effects on bearing currents,”IEEE
Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 577–584, Mar./Apr. 1997.
Behrooz Mirafzal (S’01–M’05) received the B.Sc.
degree in electrical engineering from Isfahan Univer-
sity of Technology, Isfahan, Iran, in 1994, the M.Sc.
degree (with ﬁrst class honors) in electrical engineer-
ing from the University of Mazandaran, Mazandaran,
Iran, in 1997, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical
engineering from Marquette University, Milwaukee,
WI, in 2005.
From 1997 to 2000, he was a Research Engineer
and a Lecturer with several academic institutions
in Isfahan, Iran. Since 2005, he has been a Senior
Development Engineer with the Motion Group, Rockwell Automation/
Allen–Bradley, Mequon, WI. He has published 20 articles in professional
journals and conference proceedings. He is the holder of one U.S. patent. He
is currently involved in research and development related to servo motor drive
systems. His research interests include power electronic applications, motor
drive systems, and fault diagnostics in electric machines and drives.
Dr. Mirafzal is a member of Sigma Xi and the Electric Machines Committee
of the IEEE Industry Applications Society.
Gary L. Skibinski received the B.S.E.E. and
M.S.E.E. degrees from the University of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, in 1976 and 1980, respectively, and
the Ph.D. degree from the University of Wisconsin,
Madison, in 1992.
From 1976 to 1980, he was an Electrical Engineer
with Eaton Corporation, where he worked on naval
nuclear power. From 1981 to 1985, he was a Senior
Project Engineer with the Allen–Bradley Company,
where his work concerned servo controllers. During
the Ph.D. program, he was a Consultant in UPS and
switch-mode power supply products with R.T.E. Corporation. He is currently
an Engineering Consultant with the Allen–Bradley Company, Rockwell Au-
tomation, Inc., Mequon, WI. He has published over 80 articles in professional
journals and conference proceedings with 18 receiving prize awards. He is the
holder of 18 U.S. patents. His current interests include power semiconductors,
power electronic applications, and high-frequency high-power converter cir-
cuits for ac drives.

## PAGE 15
1246 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS, VOL. 43, NO. 5, SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2007
Rangarajan M. Tallam (S’97–M’01–SM’07) re-
ceived the B.Tech. degree in electrical engineering
from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras,
India, in 1997, and the M.S.E.E. and Ph.D. degrees
in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute
of Technology (Georgia Tech), Atlanta, in 1999 and
2001, respectively.
From 2001 to 2005, he was a Senior Research
Engineer with the Advanced Technology Division,
Rockwell Automation, Milwaukee, WI, where he
conducted research on active rectiﬁers and multilevel
converters. He is currently a Senior Project Engineer with the Standard Drives
Development Group, Rockwell Automation, Mequon, WI. He is the holder
of two U.S. patents. His research interests are in switching power converter
technology, motor control, and ac drive systems.
Dr. Tallam is a member of the IEEE Industry Applications, IEEE Power
Electronics, and IEEE Industrial Electronics Societies.
David W. Schlegel (S’89–M’98) received the
B.S.E.E.T. degree in electrical power engineer-
ing technology and the M.S.E. degree from the
Milwaukee School of Engineering, Milwaukee, WI,
in 1996 and 2001, respectively.
From 1979 to 2001, he was with Allen–Bradley,
Rockwell Automation, where his last position was
a Senior Development Engineer in advanced devel-
opment. During this time, he made contributions to
ac drive performance and the understanding of drive
application issues. From 2001 to 2005, he was with
ABB Inc., New Berlin, WI, where he was a Senior Development Engineer in
R&D. While at ABB, he made contributions to the ASC550 drive development.
Since 2005, he has been a Project Engineer in continuing engineering with
Allen–Bradley, Rockwell Automation, Mequon, WI. He is responsible for 1336
and PowerFlex adjustable-speed drive product line engineering. His current
interests include the modeling of ac drive system components, mitigation of
application issues, and enhancing/maintaining drive performance.
Richard A. Lukaszewski (S’75–M’76–SM’04) re-
ceived the B.S.E.E. degree from Milwaukee School
of Engineering, Milwaukee, WI, in 1976, and the
M.S. degree in engineering from the University of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, in 2004.
From 1976 to 1992, he was with Louis
Allis/MagneTek, where he worked in drive systems
engineering and later in drive development engineer-
ing, and on SCR-based current source inverters and
bipolar and IGBT voltage source inverters. Since
1992, he has been with the Standard Drives Division,
Rockwell Automation, Mequon, WI, where he is currently a Program Manager.
His team helped develop Rockwell Automation’s ﬂagship motor drive products
from the 1336 generation to the present PowerFlex products. He is also the
coauthor of several technical papers presented at IEEE Industry Applications
Society (IAS) Conferences.
Mr. Lukaszewski has been a member of the IAS for 33 years and is currently
a Senior Member. He is also involved with several committees within the IAS.
He served in the Milwaukee Chapter of the IEEE IAS Section from 1980 to
1984. He was the Section Chairman of the Milwaukee Chapter when it won
the “Best Large Chapter” Award presented at the 1984 IEEE IAS Annual
Meeting in Chicago, IL. He was also the past Chair of the Power Devices and
Components Committee (PEDCC) of the IAS. He currently serves as the Chair
of the Industrial Power Conversion Systems Department (IPCSD) of the IAS.
He is also a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin.
View publication stats